>> Nina Zakharenko: Now for modules and
imports, Python has a pretty
simple package structure.
But this has changed between Python 2 and
Python 3.
So in Python 2, this dunder init.py
file was required to be in a folder for
Python to consider that
folder a package module.
In Python 3, it's no longer required,
but it is still supported and
it can be useful.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's
make a basic function.
And we're gonna make a new module.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
going back to the VS Code
here,
>> Nina Zakharenko: If you don't
have a PowerShell for
Windows or a Bash for Mac,
you might wanna create
a new terminal window here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And if you'll notice,
because I have the Python extension
activated, when I make
a new terminal window,
VS Code automatically sources
the virtual environment, so handy.
Okay, so I'm gonna make a new folder.
And I'm gonna call it my_math_functions.
And then I'm gonna cd into there.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm
gonna make a new file
and,
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm
gonna call it __init__.py.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You
can also open a new window
here and save it, so bbb.
In this my_math_functions __init.__py,
I'm gonna put this simple function,
add_numbers(x, y).
I want to go back up one
directory to pyworkshop,
because I'm gonna be
importing this folder.
So let's try that again.
I'm gonna type python.
And I'm gonna say,
import my_math_functions.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now I can call
my_math_functions.add_numbers.
>> Nina Zakharenko: There we go,
we can use that as a library.
So generally,
>> Nina Zakharenko: If you wanted,
if I had a bunch of functions in here,
it's valid syntax for Python,
but don't do this.
I could say from
my_math_functions import *.
And that's gonna go and import everything
from this file into my
current environment.
And then I can just say,
add_numbers three and five.
But this isn't great.
Generally, when we're using
functions in these types of modules,
we wanna be as specific as possible and
only import what we're going to use.
That lets us keep our environment,
also called a namespace in Python,
as clean as possible, and
not littered with other values
that we don't care about.
So if I just wanted to import add_numbers,
I would say from my_math_functions
import add_numbers.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
then I can say add_numbers(1, 2).
>> Nina Zakharenko: If our library has a
useful name, which it should, our module,
sometimes, and we plan on importing
quite a few things from it.
Sometimes it's okay to just say,
import my_math_functions,
and then call
my_math_functions.add_numbers.
Because that gives you some context
of where that method came from.
So different best practices for
different scenarios.
You can also use that as keyword,
like we did with exceptions, to change how
that import is seen in your current
environment or your namespace.
So there's a function called prettyprint
that we haven't talked about yet, that
helps you print out large dictionaries
in a little bit of a cleaner way.
So let's say I had a dictionary
with some squares in it.
The key is the number,
the value is the squares.
And I'm gonna say for
num in range, say 30.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If I
just print my dictionary,
it's gonna be a little bit of a blob.
I can import something called prettyprint.
I'd say from prettyprint,
which is the module,
import prettyprint, which is the function.
Sorry, it's not prettyprint, it's pprint.
So I would say from pprint import pprint.
And pprint stands for prettyprint.
Now I can say pprint(my_dict).
And look at that,
it prints it out a little bit nicer.
There's some new lines here,
a little bit easier for us to read.
But pprint is kind of a mouthful.
So I could also say from
pprint import pprint as pp.
And now that’s considered an alias.
If I didn't already import pprint,
it would not be available in this context.
I would just have to use pp, pp(my_dict).
And that works just the same.